.TH SWORDFISH 1 "$(date +"%Y-%m-%d")" "Swordfish 1.2.4" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
swordfish \- A pkill-like CLI tool

.SH SYNOPSIS

 swordfish [-k] [-S] [-W] [-x] [-y] [-v] [-t] [-p] [-n] [-w] [-r] [--sort <ram|age>] [--exclude <pattern>] [--user <user>] [--retry <seconds>] [--timeout <seconds>] [--format <string>] [--parent <pid>] [--session <sid>] [--pidfile <file>] [--pre-hook <script>] [--post-hook <script>] [--completions <shell>] [--man [file]] [--version] [--help [category]] pattern...

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
All flags can be grouped together. For example: "-S -y" can be written as "-Sy".

Operations (capital, mutually exclusive):
  -k                     Send a signal to matching processes (default: SIGTERM)
  -S                     Interactively select which processes to act on
  -W                     Watch matching processes live

Modifiers (lowercase, stackable):
  -x                     Exact match process names (default: substring match)
  -y                     Auto-confirm; skip all prompts
  -v                     Increase verbosity level up to -vvv for maximum verbosity
  -t                     Always act on only the top matched process
  -p                     Print raw PIDs only
  -n                     Dry run — show what would happen without doing it
  -w                     Wait for the process to die after sending a signal
  -r                     Hide processes owned by root

Supplying a pattern without an operation enters Static Mode where Swordfish finds and
displays matching processes without sending any signals. Good for checking what's
running before committing to a kill.

By default, Swordfish asks for confirmation before acting. Use "-y" to skip this.

Run 'swordfish --help <category>' for more detail on a specific topic.
.SH SIGNAL CONTROL
Swordfish gives you full control over which signal gets sent to matching processes.
The signal embeds directly after -k as a number or named signal.

  -k                     Send SIGTERM (default — graceful shutdown)
  -k9                    Send SIGKILL (forceful — process is terminated immediately)
  -k15                   Send SIGTERM explicitly by number
  -kHUP                  Send SIGHUP (commonly used to reload configs)
  -kUSR1                 Send SIGUSR1
  -kUSR2                 Send SIGUSR2

Think of "-k" as asking nicely and "-k9" as not asking at all.

Named signals can be combined with modifiers. The signal always comes immediately
after -k, modifiers follow after:

  -k9y firefox           SIGKILL + auto-confirm
  -kHUPy nginx           SIGHUP + auto-confirm
  -k9xy firefox          SIGKILL + exact match + auto-confirm

Supported named signals: HUP, INT, QUIT, KILL, TERM, USR1, USR2, STOP, CONT

If no signal is specified, SIGTERM is used. To escalate to SIGKILL automatically
if the process doesn't die, use --timeout:

  -k --timeout 5 firefox   Send SIGTERM, escalate to SIGKILL after 5 seconds
.SH FILTERING
By default, Swordfish does a case-insensitive substring match against process names
and command line arguments. The flags below let you narrow down or change how matching works.

  -x                     Exact match only (default: substring match)
  -r                     Hide processes owned by root
  --user <user>          Only show processes owned by <user>
  --exclude <pattern>    Exclude processes matching <pattern> from results
  --parent <pid>         Match only children of the given parent PID
  --session <sid>        Match processes by session ID
  --pidfile <file>       Read target PID from file

Patterns support basic regex. If your pattern looks like a regex (contains ^, $, *, etc.)
Swordfish will compile and use it automatically. Wrap a pattern in ^<pattern>$ to force
an exact match via regex, or just use "-x" for simple exact matching.

Multiple patterns can be supplied and any match will include the process:

  swordfish firefox chrome    Show processes matching 'firefox' or 'chrome'

Sorting:

  --sort <ram|age>       Sort the process list by RAM usage or age

The default sort order matches the order entries appear in /proc, which is generally
lowest to highest PID.
.SH BEHAVIOR
When Swordfish matches processes, it shows them and asks for confirmation before
sending any signals. The flags below change how that works.

  -y                     Auto-confirm; skip the confirmation prompt
  -S                     Interactive selection — choose which matched processes to act on
  -t                     Always act on only the top (first) matched process
  -n                     Dry run — show what would happen without doing it
  -w                     Wait for the process to die after sending a signal
  --retry <seconds>      Retry every <seconds> if no processes are matched
  --timeout <seconds>    Escalate to SIGKILL after <seconds> if process does not die

Static Mode:
Running Swordfish with just a pattern and no operation flag enters Static Mode.
No signals are sent and it just lists matching processes. Good for checking what's
running before committing to a kill.

Verbosity:
The "-v" flag increases how much info is shown per process. Stack up to three:

  0 (default)
    PID "<process>" owned by <user>

  1 (-v)
    PID "<process>" cmdl: "<args>" threads: "<n>" owned by <user>

  2 (-vv)
    [<state>] PID "<process>" cmdl: "<args>" threads: "<n>" owned by <user>

  3 (-vvv)
    [<state>] PID "<process>" cmdl: "<args>" threads: "<n>" owned by <user>
        RAM: "<n> MB" AGE: "<n> min"

Hooks:
Script hooks let you run a file before or after signals are sent. Useful for
notifications, logging, or anything else you want to automate around a kill.

  --pre-hook <script>    Run <script> before sending signals
  --post-hook <script>   Run <script> after sending signals

The script receives the PID and process name as arguments.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS
Shell Completions:
Swordfish officially supports completions for Bash, Zsh, and Fish. Generate them
with "--completions <shell>". Output goes to stdout by default, or to a file if provided.

  --completions <shell> [file]   Generate completions for fish, bash, or zsh

Examples:
  swordfish --completions fish                   Print fish completions to stdout
  swordfish --completions bash ~/.bash_complete  Write bash completions to a file

Version:
  --version              Show the current installed version of Swordfish

Man Pages:
Man pages are generated automatically on every build and written to docs/swordfish.1.
You can also generate them manually and write to a custom path:

  --man [file]           Generate the man page, optionally writing to <file>

The man page is built dynamically from all help pages combined and formatted.

Output Format:
Custom output format strings let you control exactly what gets printed per process:

  --format <string>      Custom output format string

The man page is built dynamically from all help pages combined and formatted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
-k firefox
Kill all processes with 'firefox' in the name (SIGTERM)
.TP
-k9 firefox
Kill all processes with 'firefox' using SIGKILL
.TP
-kx bash
Kill all exact matches of 'bash'
.TP
-k9y firefox
Send SIGKILL to all 'firefox' processes without confirmation
.TP
-Sky firefox
Interactively select firefox processes and kill without confirmation
.TP
-kHUP nginx
Send SIGHUP to nginx (reload config)
.TP
-ky --retry 5 firefox
Kill 'firefox', retrying every 5 seconds until none remain
.TP
--pre-hook notify.sh nvim
Run 'notify.sh' before killing Neovim
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
HUP : Signal number 1
.TP
INT : Signal number 2
.TP
QUIT : Signal number 3
.TP
KILL : Signal number 9
.TP
TERM : Signal number 15
.TP
USR1 : Signal number 10
.TP
USR2 : Signal number 12
.TP
STOP : Signal number 19
.TP
CONT : Signal number 18
